nrf_rpc: Remote Procedure Calls for nRF SoCs (#160)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrfxlib: nrf_rpc/doc/transport.rst

.. _transport:

Transport
#########

> Bottom layer of the nRF_RPC is a transport layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bottom layer of the nRF_RPC is a transport layer.
```

It is OS-dependent.

> Its main goal is to transfer packets between two sites and to handle thread pool.

Reviewer: What is "sites"?  Cores or Threads?

Author: nRF RPC is for inter-core communication, so *sides* are always different cores.

Reviewer 2: So, it has to be _sides_ in the doc?

Author: Yes, `sides`, I will fix that.

The transport implementation can be selected by the configuration.

> Currently default transport is `OpenAMP <https://github.com/OpenAMP/open-amp/>`_ on `Zephyr <https://www.zephyrproject.org/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently the default transport is `OpenAMP <https://github.com/OpenAMP/open-amp/>`_ on `Zephyr <https://www.zephyrproject.org/>`_.
```

> For nRF_RPC top level API users it is not important to know details about the transport layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: It is not required to know how the transport layer is implemented when using the nRF_RPC API.
```

> This knowlage is important to implement a new transport or port to a different OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowledge of the transport implementation is required to implement an alternate transport, or port to a different operating system.
```

The template header describing the nRF_RPC transport APIS is ``template/nrf_rpc_tr_tmpl.h``.

> Header file ``include/rp_trans.h`` is

Reviewer: Something is missing here: is...

Author: Because of significant simplification of the transport layer, this file does not exists any more.

Endpoints
=========

> Important concept of nRF_RPC transport is an `endpoint`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An important concept of the nRF_RPC transport is an `endpoint`.
```

> The endpoint is a destination where packets are send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The endpoint is a destination where packets are sent.
```

> One endpoint is associated to a thread that is responsible for reading packet from it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One endpoint is associated to a thread that is responsible for reading packets from it.
```

Author: `transport.rst` file was deleted.

Endpoints on the remote side are represented by the :c:struct:`nrf_rpc_tr_remote_ep` structure.

> nRF_RPC sends packets to remote endpoint using this structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF_RPC sends packets to a remote endpoint using this structure.
```

Endpoints on the local side are represented by the :c:struct:`nrf_rpc_tr_local_ep` structure.

> nRF_RPC receives packets from local endpoint using this structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF_RPC receives packets from a local endpoint using this structure.
```

> There is one special endpoint called null endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is one special endpoint called the "null" endpoint.
```

It is represented as a NULL value in pointers to the :c:struct:`nrf_rpc_tr_local_ep` or the :c:struct:`nrf_rpc_tr_remote_ep`.

> It is used by the nRF_RPC to transmit internal packets that are not associated with any thread or endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is used by the nRF_RPC to transmit control packets that are not associated with any thread or endpoint.
```

> It transmits e.g. information about error on the other side or a packet informing that the event handling finished and the thread from the thread pool is now free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, it transmits information if an error occurs, or a packet informing that the event handling finished and the thread from the thread pool is now free.
```

:cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_send` sends a packet to the remote endpoint.

> Buffer containing packet to send is allocated and managed by the transport layer,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A buffer containing the packet to send is allocated and managed by the transport layer,
```

> so it have to be created with a :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_alloc_tx_buf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so it must be created with a :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_alloc_tx_buf` type.
```

> Buffer is released automatically when it was send,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The buffer is released automatically when the packet is sent,
```

> but if it was not send :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_free_tx_buf` must be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but if it was not sent :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_free_tx_buf` must be called to free the buffer.
```

Why free a buffer that was not sent?  Is this flushing a packet?

:cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_read` reads a packet to the local endpoint.

> Read function returns a pointer to the buffer allocated and managed by the transport layer,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function returns a pointer to the buffer allocated and managed by the transport layer,
```

> but if it was not sent :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_free_tx_buf` must be called to free the buffer.

Reviewer 2: How do we know that a packet was not sent?

Author: We will get an error code from a sending function, but it is irrelevant in this context.

The description in the documentation is misleading. Should be, e.g.:

>  > The buffer is released automatically when the packet is ~~sent~~ passed to any of the sending function.

I will fix the documentation.

> so when parsing is done :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_release_buffer` must be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so when parsing is complete, :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_release_buffer` must be called.
```

:cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_current_get` returns (and allocates if necessary) a local endpoint associated with the calling thread.

Packet filtering
================

> To increase performance by reducing thread context switching a filter callback is called before it goes to destination endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase performance by reducing thread context switching, a filter callback is called before it goes to destination endpoint.
```

> Filter callback :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_filter` may interpret the packet and decide if it should go to destination endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The filter callback :cpp:func:`nrf_rpc_tr_filter` may interpret the packet and decide if it should go to destination endpoint.
```

> If not buffer holding the packet is released and NULL pointer goes to the destination packet instead of buffer pointer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not, the buffer holding the packet is released and a NULL pointer goes to the destination packet instead of a buffer pointer.
```

Thread pool
===========

> Transport layer is also responsible for handling the thread pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transport layer is also responsible for handling the thread pool.
```
